you
yo
what's going on everybody good morning
good afternoon good evening no matter
where you're coming from hope you all
are doing well
welcome back
good to see everybody
hold up my mic almost fell off we didn't
scare everybody away that's good
super review we had it we had we had
some troopers glad to see that you're
all still here you're all doing well
hopefully got some rest and recovery in
xd hey thank you for the gift of toes
i'm still tired
oh boy
hey
welcome in everybody welcome in uh so as
always like to start off with some
questions
some questions
some questions uh so the question of the
day is
would you rather have to wash your hair
with dish soap
or your dishes
with shampoo
so hair or dishes in chat for me hair
dishes
what
i thought this would be a lan side
everyone's saying hair
i thought this would have been easy
dishes
that's that i think this is the most
surprising one to me so far
wow i've done both i've been there i've
tried it
because the the the the this show gets
so sudsy how could it not how could it
not do something cool
all right we all right now let's get a
little mix they're getting some we're
getting some dishes we're getting some
hair all right it kind of flipped a
little bit when i said it
all right all right i like it okay we're
we're 50 50 now which is still
surprising to me i thought this would be
a landslide
alrighty uh as always we want to give
some folks a few seconds to get in here
tonight folks is all about a raise
if you're new around these parts we're
doing a free 30-week software
engineering bootcamp we've gone through
html through the css through the
beginnings of javascript and now we're
starting to get to some fun stuff
tonight's all about arrays you might
have got if you if you did the homework
the very last kind of like
the last little hint was a raise in the
uh codecademy work so
hopefully you've seen it a little bit
tonight we're gonna really digest them
break them apart try and get to the
nitty-gritty of what they are and how
they work hopefully with some fun
examples and then some good good uh code
to work through together
and then your homework for this week is
again another large block of reading
all right everybody didn't leave we're
good another large block of reading
we are doing more js way
just one chapter of the eloquent
javascript i know i know i know but we
got to get used to it we got to get our
reading and we got to get those muscles
going so that when we're on the job and
all there is is dusty documentation
we're ready for it
cool
all right let me go ahead and go to
literally on here let's bring up the
slides
all about a raise today
and let's start off with some questions
while we give folks an extra second get
in here you got some questions maybe i
got some answers
is it all right if i'm trying to do
active recall with the readings but
still not retaining 90 of the info i do
make ankies well that's where civic
that's where it's going to come in
you're you're not expected in in the end
of the reading to have it all locked
away in your brain and it all makes
sense that that's impossible there's no
way that that that that actually happens
and so
the act of recall
unlocks just a small percentage
bump over
reading right then it is the active it
is the active recall gives it a little
bit of bump but then it's a space
repetition which really makes it sink in
makes it stick
so if you are actively recalling you're
getting that first big bump but the real
meat and potatoes is the is the spaced
repetition if you're not doing the
spaced repetition
that's where you're gonna lose a lot of
that that learning juice and then
remember the reading for us is kind of
like the first pass we review everything
that's important in class so i always
want you to give it the good old 100
devs try but if things aren't lock again
that's what you come to class for
i see a lot of people saying are we
early uh i actually forgot to put that
into
discord
but in the u.s we have daylight savings
time
and so we are an hour actually we're
guessing we're an hour early today right
so if folks weren't here on sunday they
don't know that we were here an hour
early uh uh-oh
hope they follow us on twitter see
that's why you should follow on twitter
folks you you always get the you get the
real scoop on twitter uh but i did put
it on twitter it was on discord you did
get the email so hopefully you're
following on one of those three and you
see and
snap to it and come join us but yeah the
i'm sorry i always forget about the
daylight saving time we got a global
community i got to be a little more on
top of that
i'll i'll add that to my google calendar
so we don't forget
you got got we did you got god
uh that was gonna be an interesting game
to see how
how much our attendant swings today uh
of folks that are
being affected by daily savings time i'm
so sorry i completely forgot
oh yeah and the bill just passed now
it's permanent in the us the daily
saving time is now permanent
so
we can look forward to this happening
again next cohort yay
oh boy
sorry our international friends
all right
so
let's get into it let's talk about
our agenda today
we're going to take a quick peek at
functions and loops again
get some practice in with our functions
and loops we're actually going to see a
new kind of loop today called a for each
loop we'll get into detail what that is
a little bit then we're going to learn
about a new data structure called arrays
we're going to learn how to use them
what they are how they work we're going
to learn how to iterate through them
and then if we have time
we're going to
learn about a few methods or
extra kind of functions that come along
with arrays that we can use to uh make
our lives a lot easier so that's the
goal for today
then we come back on thursday we'll
review our
arrays again and then hinted objects so
the homework that is starting today
which we do next tuesday has a lot of
reading the quicker you can get through
that reading the better off thursday
will be and definitely tuesday will be
so this reading is very important it's
going to help you solidify stuff about
arrays and help you solidify things
around objects which are two really
meaty topics we're going to be spending
a lot of time on
if you haven't already go ahead and
check in please yeah actually i would
really appreciate a check-in today you
gotta you gotta like and retweet to all
the folks that are that are still
expecting this that to take another hour
before we start they see it we got to
bump that up in their timeline please
today's today's the most important
check-in of
of the year uh make sure we bump into
the timeline of folks that are that are
not here uh on time because of the
daylight savings time so i appreciate it
go ahead and check in give it a like
give it a retweet
yeah
beautiful thank you as always the link
is always on discord it's always if
you're just following me on twitter
you'll see it
beautiful
alrighty
thank you for checking in
if you want to be fancy
remember
best clip or funnest clip gets a special
color on discord currently there are two
exclusive individuals with the golden
yellow color on discord they're the only
folks that have it they're the envy of
all the other 100 devs so best clip i'll
always share a slido after each class
and go ahead and submit your clips in
that slido uh i know folks know how to
game slider a little bit i don't just
pick the top one i picked the best one
and best can either be like best
educational content or funniest whatever
you want to choose and
best clip gets the fancy
yellow golden color
now we also
have
the
funnest portfolio
and the funnest project
from our
our project night and so
i left open the slidos until today so if
you still want to submit your funnest
project and your funnest portfolio for a
chance at that lovely golden color and
uh some some 100 devs merch
go ahead and make sure you submit that
one and we'll we'll announce those
winners on thursday
i also opened up a slido for our super
review so if you had some good clips
from the super review feel free to share
them as well
also speaking of the super review
i
downloaded it
i edited it
i uploaded it
uh it made it onto youtube today
it was hands down
the
the best video i've put on youtube so
far in terms of like engagement
the number of likes it got was super
cool like it was it just blew the every
other video i've ever posted on youtube
out the water in terms of like likes and
views
that it immediately got on youtube
and then i got the comment
leon
it stops at seven hours
and i was like what do you mean it stops
at seven hours we went nine and a half
hours what do you mean the youtube video
stops at stops at the varial review
and then i went back and i looked at it
something happened when it was rendering
like the the the video must have been
rendering from premiere
that it said nine and a half hours on on
the actual size of the video file but
around seven and a half hours the video
file kind of just like stops and i'm
just like
i'm like stop mid-talking
and so i uploaded it and then youtube
somehow has magic to know that even
though the file says nine and a half
hours there's only seven and hours of
video and so that's what it put up on
youtube and so shout out to i should
have wrote down the comment the person
that made the comment but if you wrote
if you got that comment thank you i read
all the youtube comments uh but thank
you for that comment i took it down
so the video is down i have re-rendered
it it's looking good it's going to be
uploaded and it'll go live tomorrow so
for folks that want to watch the review
on youtube it'll go up tomorrow just so
that there were some glitches i had a
lot of people asking for it and i
promised it since we stayed over 1500
throughout the whole entire sunday
it'll go up tomorrow
and i apologize but it was it was pretty
sad because it was like it's the best it
was the best engagement we've ever
gotten on a youtube video and i was like
[__] i gotta bring it down so i'll be up
tomorrow
uh work
you had a lot of reading and some stuff
that i asked you to do over the past
week uh what i really want to see are
your drafts
the drafts of your portfolio the drafts
of your
of your proposal and contract put those
in a google doc for me
and then any of the tasks that you did
that you have code for from the reading
i want to see that too so you can throw
those in code pens glitches whatever you
want to use replits and throw those in
the form so whatever you got i want
don't worry about if you didn't have a
chance to submit it you know the the the
homework was kind of nebulous this past
week so what i want
is
the drafts of your professionals sorry
your portfolio
and your proposals
and then i want any of the tasks or
javascript that you wrote for the
reading but throw those into a code pen
doesn't have to be pretty doesn't have
to be neat
and i want it
uh screenshots of code academy throw
them in there yeah give me whatever you
got i want to see what you did what you
got done and how well you did
and how far you got through it so give
me what you got upload it for me and
i'll take it all
networking folks
this is the week
gotta start taking that networking
seriously
we talked about kind of ramping up a
little bit
ramping up a little bit right now you
want to be hitting that stride of three
networked individuals already in tech
and two coffee chats a week folks you
gotta be hitting that stride i'm gonna
give you one more
one more grace period of a week
where it doesn't matter
but after this week boy does it you
gotta hit those three individuals you
gotta hit those two coffee chats
yeah
alrighty so
what you gotta do start finding those
events go back to our class on
networking go through the things we said
to do
start finding your way of networking
right
your way of networking everyone's going
to have a different process a different
strategy some are going to like meet up
some are going to like conferences some
are going to not want to see humans at
all and want to talk through text
find what works for you this is the last
week to ease into it after next week i'm
checking it i want to see who you met
when you met them how you met them and
make sure you have those connections
cool
use the sheet i'm going to start asking
for your sheet starting next week
yeah so use the sheet make sure you're
adding your connections there make sure
you're going through that process and
then next we're going to start asking
them for those sheets with your homework
met a senior full-stack developer at
networking event last weekend she said
she's going to refer me hey let's go
that's what we're talking about folks
that's it that's how it works
it's not the uh it's not the
it's not the coding ability
i got to keep saying it's not it's not
just the raw coding ability it's the
networking that helps you get the jobs
and every single person that's here
right now there is a strategy that would
work for you to network
i really do mean it
for folks that are introverted there are
things that will feel more comfortable
that you have to explore
for folks that are extroverted don't
burn out don't go too hard on the
networking that that's another big thing
some folks come out the gate flying
they're doing 10 coffee chats a week and
then two or three weeks in they're
fizzling so be careful there's a balance
three and two
three network connections two coffee
chats is a good pace to keep for the
rest of program
how do we manage while working full time
that's that you got to be you got to be
effective with your time right that's
that's that's a it's definitely a
challenge
uh it's definitely something that that's
harder to do the beauty is that a lot of
networking events happen after normal
work hours there's also a lot to happen
on weekends there are lots of
organizations you can volunteer with on
weekends there's a lot of different ways
to go about it so depending on your
unique situation you're going to network
differently
but you got to realize
it's the biggest thing you can do that's
going to change your outcomes when it
comes time to getting a job
yeah exactly cow milk said you're
normally networking with people who have
jobs so they'll be at around five too
exactly so if you're working a normal
nine to five then you'll probably be
networking with folks that get off at
five too
is an eight gigabyte laptop good enough
for web development hell yeah
been offered four jobs while doing ride
share just talking about the boot camp
uh yeah i'll tell you what my my uber
drivers always make the best students
the the folks that do the the ride
sharing i don't know what's in your dna
but i look at all my best students from
rc i look at all my best students from a
lot of students coming out 100 devs it's
always the rideshare folks that are
eating everybody's lunch so
keep it up
no
alrighty
code challenges
we're getting ready to start our code
challenges
daily daily code challenges
in the beginning
i want you to start trying
code wars
we'll eventually share challenges that i
want you to focus on
but i need you to start adding a daily
code challenge into your
life
i always have my students start off with
code wars
if you've never done a code wars before
it is just a coding challenge now when
you go to code wars you're going to see
some doozies of some problems you're
going to see some some some problems
that make your your brain spin
i don't want you to start with those
types of coding challenges
on code wars
there is specifically
a fundamentals track that covers the
basics of javascript please for the
first week or two do not do any problems
that are not in that fundamentals track
they're too hard you'll you'll burn out
it won't go well for you unless you've
kind of gone ahead a little bit on your
javascript reading
so you want to make sure in code wars
you're on the fundamentals track
the way code wars works is that each
coding challenge has a ranking
it goes from eight to one and then it's
kind of like you're a black belt and you
do like harder harder problems so eights
are actually the easiest on code wars it
seems odd you think maybe like one would
be the easiest but no eight is the is
the easiest and then you go down the
seven six fives right so
make sure
you are doing
right make sure you are doing
level eight
fundamentals code wars if you're doing
anything else they're too hard
cool
we also have a
clan on
code wars so if you join the clan you'll
be able to see all your 100 devs folks
that are solving challenges as well it's
exclamation point clan in chat it'll
give you the link to join it's like when
you set up your account in your settings
you can add a clan and we have a 100
devs clan that you can join and that way
you can you can even compete against
other folks to see how many you get done
uh i will say a lot of folks that were
high up in the clan last last cohort
they did well when it came to the job
search so if you want that extra little
bit of fun you can do it
uh it's just excellent it's just the
octathorp 100 devs is the clan name yeah
yeah with the hyphen leonel.com twitch
here i'll actually throw it in chat
because i know it'll speed by
all right here we go
there we go
that's it it's that full thing it's the
it's the octothorpe 100 devs hyphen
leoniewall.com twitch it's like the
actual full thing i'll put it in the
slides for next class
yeah
alrighty i need you to start today
yes today
every day
every day you do a you do a coding
challenge saturdays coding challenge
sunday coding challenge monday coding
challenge tuesday coding challenge
wednesday coding challenge thursday
coding challenge friday two not just
coding challenge right
it's a daily coding challenge you need
this practice
right
for right now
you're just gonna be doing them on code
wars and just submitting them there
and and and taking your time with it
the
fundamental rule
with any coding challenge
i don't know why people don't always say
this from the very beginning
if you look at a coding challenge and
you have
no idea
how to solve that coding challenge like
you don't even if you don't even
understand the words that are being said
just look at the solution
that's it
look at the solution
understand the solution
type it all out
add it to your anki make sure you never
forget that solution again and move on
to the next day
it's not cheating
it's learning
what when you are first starting out
with coding challenges
it it there's there's nobody there's
there's nothing
there's nothing to be gained
by stressing out and then going and
crying in the bathroom
coding challenges for a lot of folks
invoke some really strong emotions
who gives a [__] if for the first two
weeks you look at every single solution
it just doesn't matter
if you could look at the challenge and
there's like there's no way i'm doing
this bad boy just look at the solution
and move on
just does it just like make sure you
understand it you retype it out a few
times you add it to your anki you will
gain more
right
you will gain more
from looking at the solution typing it
out a couple of times adding it to your
anki then you will from sitting there
and freaking out for for 10 minutes
just does it just doesn't make any sense
right so i hate when people first start
doing coding challenges and they sit
there and and just freak out for an hour
and then they don't learn anything
use your time effectively now
once you got a couple of them underneath
your belt and you're starting to feel
good there's a difference between like
having no idea
and maybe i need to spend 20 minutes on
this
right there there is that difference and
you got to find it sometimes you're
gonna look at him like i might have an
idea let me let me let me try a few
things like let me play with it a little
bit and then if you spend 20 minutes you
stop
20 minutes
is all
you ever spend on a coding challenge in
the beginning
all you ever spent on the kona challenge
in the beginning is 20
minutes
20 minutes
if you have given it a solid
and you don't have a solution you stop
you look at the solution
you type it out a few times and you add
it to your anki make sure you understand
it before you move on
you will get so much more out of looking
at a solution internalizing it
understanding it adding it to your anki
then you will for struggling for another
half an hour on the problem
so in the beginning
if you look at a problem and you're like
there's no way i'm getting even close to
this just look at the solution once you
start feeling a little bit better and
like you understand how the coding
challenges work give yourself the good
ol 100 devs try spend 20 minutes on the
problem if after 20 minutes is not
making any sense then you look at the
solution you internalize it you figure
out why it works why didn't work you
type it all out you add it to your enki
this is a way better way
to get good at coding challenges than
just banging your head against the
keyboard for an hour
cool we are we all on the same page
all right
now
every day when i say every day please
every day you're gonna you're it's
you're gonna come towards the end of
program and you're gonna be like leon
can you be a reference
i'm gonna i'm gonna say all right show
me
show me your code wars
show me your coding challenges
show me your anki
right all these things
when you when you want my help as we get
further on i'm going to want to see that
you've been doing it daily
eventually the other reason why we do
coding challenges
is because once we get to git and github
which is a place that we're going to
store all of our code
we push daily we push our coding
challenge every day so to a recruiter or
a hiring partner what they see is that
you are writing code every single day
which helps you stand out against other
candidates that are not
so the the coding challenges are two
purposes one they make you a lean mean
interviewing machine but they also help
you pass that
sniff test
of are you actually a software engineer
because the recruiter is going to look
at your profile on github and see that
you push code every single
day
which brings us up
to an amazing announcement
an amazing announcement
but it's not the best announcement of
the week folks
i got an announcement for you i didn't
put in the slides because i want folks
to ruin it
it's a great announcement it's an
amazing announcement
it's uh
it's a wonderful announcement
but the best thing i've ever announced
since i started happens on thursday so i
don't wanna i don't wanna downplay this
announcement because it's a beautiful
announcement it's an amazing
announcement that the hype should be
real
but thursday folks
thursday i got something bigger
anyway
the big announcement is
the reason that we
do our coding challenges
is that we become lean mean interviewing
machines
okay so that we push our code every day
to github so that when recruiters are
looking
at our profiles they see that we write
code every day we push every day it's
going to help you stand out against
other candidates now we push our code to
github
so
an amazing sponsor for our upcoming
class on github
would be
github
and boy do we got it folks
microsoft is
[Music]
we're giving away
all right
uh so microsoft will be sponsoring our
git and github class
uh they're giving away swag
wonderful microsoft swag for those that
don't know microsoft now now owns github
so they're coming they're sponsoring our
git and github class uh there's gonna be
lots of swag we're giving away laptops
we're doing it big folks so when we
learn git and github we're doing it with
style so huge shout out to microsoft for
sponsoring for coming back to support
our community
i can't wait it's coming up in a few
weeks
but yeah lots of lots of fun
got excited
uh
wavy 13 thank you for the gift it subs
layered cake hey hey thank you for the
10 gifted subs
and spider lady hey thank you for the
thousand bits the spider lady thank you
for being here wavy 13 thank you i
appreciate that and layered cake hey
thank you turn up
cool so that's that's an amazing
announcement
we're going to do get in github in style
we're gonna have swag to give away tons
of raffles we're gonna have laptops to
give away
we're gonna do it big so that's coming
up
but like i said folks that's just the
beginning
just the beginning
this is shaping up to be a really good
week folks we had the super review on
sunday i feel pumped
i'm ready we got a brand
spanking sponsor coming through for the
get and github class
just getting started though just getting
started
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
ah
thank you for the five good that subs
thank you for being here
alrighty let's keep it pushing folks
so i got you going
but remember
client you got to get that client on the
line
contract due date
march 31st
don't get caught we go get
you did it hey it's been amazing
folks been posting in that celebrations
channel folks been posted on twitter
getting clients left and right
got time folks
you got time
go back watch your class move through it
make the motions
it'll happen
already got three secured get out of
here
if my client wants an nda how do i share
a contract
um
send
that's a good question
does the contract fall underneath your
nda i would not have it fall underneath
the nda
get spacex next
alrighty
remember
paid client 31st you got this dig deep
just the contract don't need nothing
more just the contract you don't have
the work finished just the contract
alrighty
we had our super review
we got sponsors on deck we got another
amazing announcement on thursday
and now we're gonna start to turn things
up just a little bit
things are gonna start to go a little
bit faster
you got a lot of stuff that you're kind
of juggling now right then i juggle a
lot more now you got class
you got reading
you got daily code challenges you got
networking
you got paid
clients you're building up folks i need
to take a second and think about all the
amazing stuff that you're doing
like two months ago
versus now
is wild
it's wild to see all of y'all progress
through this to go from
just wanting to learn how to code to
knowing what the heck html is
knowing a little bit of css
maybe gotten a little javascript in your
back pocket
out there networking trying to get paid
clients
trying to do coding challenges
like what
come on now
you got to be proud of yourself i'm
proud of you you got to be proud of
yourself i don't care if you're super
behind super ahead it doesn't matter
think about where you were
a month or two ago versus where you're
going now
it's huge
it's huge and we're going to keep it
going
i'm gonna keep it going
we're gonna keep pushing
we're gonna keep moving
keep the flow going
remember it's a marathon not a sprint
whether you do it in 200 days 300 days
it doesn't matter
it's are you moving forward
are you moving forward that's it
are you different today than you were
yesterday are you different today
than you were a month ago are you
different today than you were two months
ago
because if you are you're doing it right
it's a marathon not a sprint we're going
to keep turning it up we're going to
keep juggling a little bit more but
we're moving forward folks
i don't care if you think you're a
little behind a lot behind a few little
head little far ahead it doesn't matter
we're moving forward that's all that
matters
alrighty let's get a little review in
here folks a little review
and then we're jumping into a race it's
a big meaty topic we need a lot of time
to go through it so let's let's jump
into this programming
a computer will do
what you tell it
to do
that's it a computer will do what you
tell it to do
so a program is a set of instructions
that you write to tell a computer what
to do
and a program or programming is simply
the task of writing those instructions
in a language that the computer will
understand
during the superview we talked a lot
about kind of building up from that base
binary to some simple logic from that
simple logic to a language the computer
can somewhat understand building up even
further to a language that we can
understand and that language being
javascript
right so we write javascript so that
ourselves and other engineers can
understand what the heck we mean we can
translate the things that we need to
have happen into a language that makes a
little bit of sense to you and i right
and
we're going to keep adding a little bit
more and more to javascript as we go
along we learned about the big four the
variables the functions the conditionals
the loops you could do pretty much
whatever you want with those four but
we're going to add a little bit more on
today we're going to add a new data
structure called an array next we're
going to add a new data structure called
objects we're going to keep tacking on
more and more to our javascript goodness
alrighty
javascript has a specific syntax that's
spelling and grammar rules that we've
seen we've seen a lot of weird keys when
it when it comes to javascript and
tonight
we're adding two more
square brackets so we can create arrays
literally we'll get to that what that
means in a second but we're going to
keep adding a little bit to the syntax a
little bit more we have to remember
good stuff to put into your anki syntax
deserves a spot in your anki deck
alrighty
variables chat
when we're creating variables there are
buckets where we put data we have two
steps the declaration step where we
create the bucket
and we have the assignment where we put
a value into that bucket
and we can do that declaration and
assignment at the same time here we
declare a variable called age and we
assign it the value of 25. we've been
there we've done that
we also learned about conditionals and
conditional syntax
when we look at a conditional we can
have if
else if and else how many elses can we
have
in one conditional block how many elses
can we have
oh people people are sharp today yeah
we can have one else
we got as many else if as we want but
only one else
else is the default right it runs if
everything else above it was false so we
can have our if we can have as many
elses as we want but then
when else
beautiful
when i say danger of assignment versus
comparison what the heck do i mean
assignment versus comparison what's
what's the danger there
can we just take a can we just take a
moment to pause
that the number of folks that now know
that this
versus
this is dangerous
if you know why this
versus this is dangerous that's some
wild stuff that's some wild [__]
could you
imagine can you imagine
just two months ago living life
not knowing this was alarm bells and
this was okay
we outside folks we inside we online
that's wild
remember assignment
is where you're adding a value
to a data bucket you're you're giving a
variable its value comparison is when
you're trying to compare two things to
each other does three equal four nah
that's not true
beautiful
we can compare multiple things inside of
our conditionals at the same time so in
this case if your name is leon
and your status is ballin
you don't get the camera
we can also go ahead and do
or
so where both of these must have been
true
we could also do or
where only one has to be true so if day
is saturday or day equals sunday then we
know it is the weekend
beautiful
functions chat what are functions
what are functions
i got the big bottle today folks i'm
hydrating
they're just instructions yes
functions are sets of instructions
they're simple sets of instructions
they're reusable the beauty of using
functions is that you can
declare your function once and call it
as many times as you want so you do one
little bit of work and then you can
reuse that work as many times as you
want people often call these the
building blocks of our programs
is it whiskey no
it's a it's i wish i had a big jug of
whiskey this size get out of here this
is iced tea it's a
zero sugar sweet tea
it's pretty dang tasty i like this
i like this zero sugar sweet tea
my great my great grandmother always
made
iced tea
and i know it's weird but this tastes
like her iced tea i don't know why
but it does i drink it all damn time
alrighty
our functions have a very specific kind
of syntax
right
granny using stevia i don't think i
don't think she's stevia but i don't
know why it does that's what it reminds
me of
our functions have a very specific
syntax chat what is this
what is that what did i just circle
there's a very specific name i'm looking
for ah there we go the function
declaration beautiful
and then
hold on hold on
hold on
all right what's this
what did i just circle
no peeking
yeah that's our function call
and we call mom to argue so whenever we
are passing so whenever we're calling
our functions we are passing our
arguments and whenever we are setting
our function declarations
we're setting up our parameters
beautiful now
when i make a function declaration
where does it go
when i when i type out a function
declaration i save i run my file where
does it go
like the browser executes the javascript
file where does it go
oh
bob one three four got it
first into memory yeah our function
declarations go into memory we can think
about our memory being a physical place
and right now there is
a space in memory called name
that has all the instructions that would
be inside of this function
beautiful
here is a an actual function with
actual parameters a function exterior
instrument with actual parameters word
is our actual parameter here down here
we have our function call we're passing
in our argument of hello that argument
of hello goes into word wherever i see
word it's actually hello and we alert
hello
beautiful
loops
chat what are loops we're getting our
space repetition here tonight folks what
are loops
fruity
i didn't
i didn't get the job at fruit loops my
body is now your communion eat from me
eat from me
some people don't know where that comes
from but uh if you do we could be
friends
bird up exactly
[Music]
alrighty loops enable us to do some
action a certain number of times
right enables us to do something
something a certain number of times
there are three main kinds of loops
you're going to run into legalized ranch
yeah there are three the main types of
loops we're going to run into for
while and do while loops but tonight
we're actually going to see another kind
of loop a for each loop that comes
specifically with a raise so there are
more than just those three in javascript
uh the different kind of loops really
just offer a different way to determine
a start and end point to your loop
alrighty
the
first kind of loop that we've talked
about was a for loop let's quickly run
through the syntax again let's quickly
run through the syntax again for a for
loop then we'll look at a while loop and
then we're going to do some practice
before we take our break so here's a for
loop
we have it set up so that we have our
increment that we're starting here at
one today we're gonna start seeing
increments maybe starting at zero for a
very specific reason in a few minutes
so here our increment starts at one or
our counter starts at one our counter is
called i in this situation
so our counter starts at one
we're going to check to see if our count
is less than five if our count is less
than five we do what is inside the curly
braces and then when we are done
when we are done
that count is gonna go up by
one so
the very first time this runs
our count starts off at one so we say
hey
is one less than five it is
so printed to the console is what the
count currently is at one
then it goes up by one
and now our count or i is at two
is two less than five well indeed it is
so then we print two to the console and
we go up
by one
now we're at three
is three less than five it is it is
indeed so we do what's inside the curly
braces and we print three to the console
then we go up by one
is four less than five it is indeed so
four gets printed to the console and
then we go up
by one
now we're at five
is five less than five
is five less than five no five is not
less than five so we stop we're done
we're finished you're cut it's over
all right we stop
beautiful so this loop would print one
through four and then be done
if we want it to include five
what change could we make chat if we
wanted to include five what change could
we add
yeah we can change this to a less than
or equal and now we would get one
through five with five because five
would be less than or equal to five
beautiful
another kind of loop that we just saw we
actually hadn't worked through yet is a
while loop
a while loop is very similar
you have your condition
and then
this loop will run
as long as that condition is true
so you can see up here we start count at
zero
so in this case zero is less than five
so we would print to the console
zero
and then we would add one to zero so i
add one to our account now we're at one
then we do it all over again is one less
than five it is so we print one
we go up to two
two
three
four
and then we print four we go up to five
is five less than five no
so we
stop
so very similar
except that we're seeing the increment
happen
inside of the loop
so the reason why
i don't often start my students off with
while loops why do you think why do you
think i start them off with four loops
and not while loops
it's a lot easier i think to get into an
infinite loop
if you forget your increment
right or you do your increment wrong
you're going to be looping for a while
folks until kingdom come or your
computer crashes and so i always like to
start off with for loops because you're
kind of forced to think about your
counter
your end condition and your increment a
little bit more than you might in a
while loop but you'll see both
and as you start doing your coding
challenges there might be some scenarios
where a while loop makes a little bit
more sense than a for loop right now
you're like why would i use one over the
other it's just about when you start and
stop and so as you start getting into
code challenges pay attention to when
you might use a while or a four because
it'll come up
we'll get some practice with that in the
future but for now just keep an eye out
for it when you're doing your coding
challenges
alrighty
let's get some practice in and then
we're gonna take our break
actually you know what let's take our
break and then come back and do the
practice
let's do that let's take our break and
then we'll do the practice so i'm gonna
put five minutes on the timer
we'll come back from the break and we'll
do our practice so let me bring up the
timer here
beautiful
put five minutes on the timer for us
please
hydrate if you're able to get up move
around let your eyes focus on something
that's not there in front of your screen
i'm gonna run some ads so new folks
don't see them
take your five i'll see you then
all right folks come on back come on
back
all right everybody
we got the daylight savings crew coming
in
have you seen the new batman nah i i
haven't gone to the movie theaters yet
that's that's like a step too far for me
i'm just starting to go outside again
like movie theaters is like a whole
other
a whole other thing
all right folks get in here
i've done more stuff outside in the past
like two weeks than i have in like a
year
we outside exactly
one of my favorite comments on their
videos was i've lived in new york my
whole life i've never seen any of these
types of people or these types of
characters and the top comment was
because you weren't outside
[Laughter]
i love it i love it it's so true
they were not outside
alrighty folks we got some work to do
we got some work to do
in the starter code for today if you're
new
scorpio welcome if you're new and you
want the materials for the work that
we're about to do it's on our discord so
exclamation point discord and chat or
lead on the world.com discord agree to
our rules and there will be a
follow-along materials channel and in
the zip code from today there will be a
bring it all or nothing
challenge and in there in that
javascript file
is some work for you to do we got some
variable reviews some function review
some conditional review and
maybe our first real coding challenge
with loops we're going to go over it all
together after five minutes and then
we're jumping into a raise folks
so i'm gonna put five minute on the
timer
bring out some tunes you got this it's
to bring it on all or nothing javascript
practice your variables your functions
your conditionals your loops we'll go
over it together if you're stuck about
it
this is the bring it on all or nothing
just did this after reviewing the mega
review that's awesome
king berlin it's exclamation point
discord in chat
i'll give you the link
you weren't finished your soup yet oh no
this is javascript
you ever use c plus plus i do
a little bit i've been trying to get
into some more competitive programming
and
people tend to use a little bit of c and
c plus plus than that so
purple glurp it's in the slides and also
on discord too
the link for your your work
always in the uh
always in the follow materials channel
message will be the link to submit the
homework
how do i declare a variable
wow we did a great super review on
sunday so you could definitely watch
that class and learn all the basics of
what we're doing tonight
or
you just wait three minutes we'll go
over it together
do you recommend cracking the coding
interview book i actually recommend
their github repo that has all the stuff
in javascript that was that's gonna be
way more useful if you're following
along with this course so yeah i like it
definitely just check out their github
repo though
right that's actually pretty common
it goes away with time more practice and
time it goes away
i declare variable
what level of code wars is good to start
interview hunting
if you already have full stack skills in
the portfolio that shows it once you can
reliably do sixes you're more than
enough ready remember interviewing has
nothing to do with how well you
interview but also your networking
your networking into into jobs not
coding your way into jobs
always plan
that's cool risky
why do you need it
that's interesting
auggie it does it does work
sorry to hear galaxy
macro code wars is is ranked from eight
to one and then like you do really hard
ones and so
sixes are
where they start to get a little bit
more difficult and folks that can
reliably do those they're more than
enough ready
last one is hard that's that's the
that's the challenging one we'll go over
it though
mikey dubs we're gonna go over it
together when we get to getting github
don't worry about that now
alrighty folks come on back come on back
let's go over this together
got some folks coming in done that's
pretty cool that was a tough one to come
finish to finish
alrighty
let's take a look at these together
oh declare a variable assign it a
boolean and alert the value what the
heck is a boolean
what's that chat what's a boolean
true or false exactly
it's another data type just like we have
numbers we have strings we also have
booleans in javascript true or false
values so declare variable
let
duck
have have a
equal
true
and then i can alert
have
a
duck beautiful
so i declared a variable called have i
have a have a duck i set it value equal
to true i signed it the value of true
and then i alerted that variable so i
should see if i was to open this in my
browser
the value of true
and make sure i'm here let's go
let's open this
and beautiful we see true pop up in the
browser
declare a variable and reassign it to
your favorite color
and console.log the value all right
let's declare a variable
let
favorite
color
equal
chat what's your favorite color
purple green greens kind of
means kind of coming through a little
bit
purple's in there too
oh
this is a close one green
we do a poll
let's see question
favorite
color
i saw blue
green
red
purple
or the dominant one so far
and oddly
like pink
all right started a poll
this is this is for this is for high
stakes folks this this is this is for
what we what we do what we assign
our our variable to be
all right blue's coming in at 34
green's pulling in at 30
red took a nosedive to eight
all right i think i think blue's gonna
pull it out here
but 35 of the vote
to uh greens 27
if red and purple want to join in with
green you might be able to overtake blue
but
it seems like
it seems like the blue is going to have
it here
all right
the pole's coming to an end
and with that blue winds wow
that was close
beautiful folks lou wins it
favorite color
red
could you imagine
[Laughter]
blue all right
declare a variable
oh we got we'll start it off at red
we'll start off at red and then we'll
reassign it to the favorite color
come on now vs code
favorite color start off is red
and then we'll reassign favorite color
be the winner
which equals blue beautiful
and then console.log what the heck
it does not like colors folks oh so what
what am i doing wrong here
what am i doing wrong here i i i
assigned it red
then i assigned it blue
and now i'm going to console.log the
value
what am i doing wrong here
ah
what is what would javascript try and
read red and blue as right now
would it try and read them as right now
yeah it's going to look for a variable
called red and a variable called blue
what we really want is them to be
strings so they need to be they need to
be wrapped in quotes so i'll put writing
quotes and then i'll put
blue in quotes
beautiful and now we have declared
favorite color assigned it red
reassigned it to our favorite color
which is blue according to chat and then
we console log it beautiful
functions
create a function that takes in four
numbers returns the sum of the first
three numbers divided by the fourth
return the result and call the function
all right so let's create a function
here
called
sum
[Music]
three and
divide
and we know that we're taking in three
numbers let's just do n one and sorry
four numbers
uh and n4
and then
we're going to return the result so
let's do our return keyword
and let's just use parentheses that we
don't worry about pemdas
and we're going to sum the first three
numbers so n1 plus n2
plus n3
we're going to divide by n4
beautiful
and then it says to call the function so
let's call it
come three and divide
let's pass in our numbers here
let's do 10
and then
five
there we go
now once i call this
what's going to happen on line 16
i call it
it runs the function
what happens
hoofs
exactly
the result will get returned to where it
was called where it was highlighted
right it's going to get returned to here
but since we haven't created a variable
we haven't like console logged it we
haven't alerted it it'll it'll vanish in
the thin air beautiful
all right create a function that takes
in two numbers
console log the first number to the
power
of the second and then call the function
uh so we're gonna call this function
more
power i will do lowercase
pawa
there we go
more power
and we're going to take in two numbers
so we'll say
um
robot
and duck beautiful robot and duck
and then we want a
log the number to the power of the
second so let's go and set up our
console log
and inside this console log we have to
do one number to the power of other what
have you all been using ah i see a lot
of math.pal
in the chat math.pal
and we can pass in two numbers so we can
pass in robot
and we can pass in
duck
beautiful
lots of other ways to do this as well
right but
javascript comes with a lot of stuff
baked in one of the things that comes
baked in with is this lovely
math object and we get this lovely pal
method that's tied to it
and we are able to then pass in two
values that i'll take one and do it to
the power of the other
did a whole custom loop for it that's
okay that's cool
these things come up right azure the
reason why i love code wars
is because
if you didn't know this
it's going to come up in code wars and
then you add it to your enki and then
you start to build up all these little
extras that are built into
javascript right there are other ways to
do this you can you can use your the up
carrot you can use the
uh
the looping way
but
built into javascript is this math
object that comes with so much useful
stuff the ability to round the ability
to get random numbers the ability to do
a lot of really nifty stuff
but you might not have ever come across
it unless you came across it in the
reading
or you're doing your code wars and when
you're looking at the solutions of code
wars you go oh
they use this thing and then you can add
it to your anki and that's the beauty of
the code wars early on
yeah
cool
and then it said the call the function
so more
power
beautiful and we'll pass in
four and two
conditionals
create a function
that takes in a boolean
and a string
if the boolean is true
alert the string
if the boolean is false
console log the string
interesting all right
function
alert
what is it yes it said alert or
console.log alert or log
right alert or log
and there's a lot of different ways that
we could do this
um
let's just use our normal function
syntax we're going to start seeing arrow
functions later today we can actually do
this all in one line which is pretty
interesting
uh we're going to take in a string
so we're going to take a we're going to
take a string and a boolean so
i'm going to call this
let's give it a oop let's let's do
b and stra
beautiful
and let's just do our normal conditional
syntax let's not get fancy yet we'll
look at a ternary maybe though let's not
get fancy here
let's go and do if
all right and we'll say if b
right do i need to actually do i need to
look at anything like do i need to do if
b equals
true
do i need to do that
ah no because it's truthy b itself will
be true or false right so remember what
we're looking for is for whatever is
inside these parentheses to be true
and if b is already a boolean it's
either going to be true or false it's
enough we don't have to do the
comparison it's already going to be true
or it's already going to be false but
there's this concept called truthy
and falsey
you don't know what truthy or falsey is
i want you to add that to your homework
for tonight and tomorrow
come on thursday knowing what truthy and
falsey means
it was in the reading
so if he didn't do the reading got a
little catching up to do come on
thursday knowing what those two things
are beautiful
so we take in if b we're going to go
ahead and alert the string
beautiful
otherwise
we'll go ahead and console log the
string
beautiful
now
in
javascript
there are some other things right there
are some other things that you can do we
can get fancy with it so let's um let's
go ahead and do this real quick
there's something called a ternary
where if we do this
there we go
this is kind of the same thing as our
conditional i know it's a weird syntax
but it's the same thing as our
conditional
right what we're saying here
is
look at your look at your boolean
if this is true
you do what's on the left hand side
if this is false
you do what's on the right hand side
it's the exact same thing as doing a
conditional it just you do you do what's
on the left of the colon if it's true
and you do it to the right of the colon
if it's false
isn't that neat yeah so it's kind of
like a short form
so let's go ahead and comment this out
and let's do something else down here so
let's go ahead and do a function
expression
right so we we can eventually get to the
point
where we are doing something like this
look at that folks
this one line
is the same
as this function here
so
we're going to see arrow functions a
little bit later tonight
you you saw some of them in the reading
hopefully got a little practice with
them but the cool thing here is that
we have the name of the function called
alert or log
we have our parameters b and stra so one
for the boolean
one for the string
we have our arrow syntax some some folks
call that fat arrow but it's an arrow
syntax
and we have a ternary
all right beautiful
and so the ternary same thing if this is
true you do the alert
if it's false the console log would run
there's a lot of ways right there's a
lot of ways
right
a lot of ways
to
to to do a lot of these challenges
and the beautiful thing
is as you start to do
more coding challenges
you see different ways of solving the
same problem
you see that you see different ways of
solving it and so right now if you've
never seen this this is okay
right this is okay but as you do more
right as you do more challenges
one of the best things you can do
is look at other people's
solutions right look at other people's
solutions that's the first thing i'd
like i solve it i don't care how well i
solve it
right i don't care how well i solve it i
look at other people's solutions and i
go whoa you did that in one line
what is this ternary thing what are
these arrow syntax things and so for me
the
the coding challenge is one part trying
to solve it and the whole other part
right the whole other part
is looking at how other people did
things and trying to understand
so as you start to do these coding
challenges another benefit you get is
all these new ways of solving the same
thing
yeah cool
i don't like the parlance for that so
i'm not going to use that i said it once
i think that's enough we're going to say
big arrow going forward
alrighty loops
let's get our last little practice here
before we move into arrays this evening
create a function that takes in a number
console log all the values from 1
to that number
but if the number is divisible by 3
log fizz instead of that number
is numbers divisible by five five
log buzz instead of that number
and if the number is deals by three and
five
log fizz buzz instead of the number
now this is a very famous coding problem
it is
one of the most common
interview questions you will ever see
it was a very common problem
that everyone used to have in their
interviews and then around i don't know
like eight years ago
people were like everyone asked this
question we're not going to use it
and then like three or four years later
everyone was like wait a minute
we're gonna actually ask it again
because if you don't know how to solve
fizzbuzz not only do you maybe not know
how to code but you definitely didn't
practice or study for this interview so
it came back with a force
and one of the biggest privileges i have
as an educator during my day job and 100
devs is i see hundreds of interviews
right like you'll go through the
interview process and see a few
it people that interview others they
have their process
i see hundreds if not thousands of
interview processes across hundreds of
different companies
and when i tell you people ask fizzbuzz
people still ask fizzbuzz it's coming up
like 10 to 20 of the time
in interviews at some stage and it's not
always exactly this fizz buzz but it's
somewhat in the ballpark right so
know that it's still alive and well it's
still something that you should
absolutely have in your back pocket and
it's a really good practice because it
combines pretty much all the stuff that
we've learned thus far so let's take a
few seconds to break down fizz buzz the
idea of fizzbuzz is that you're gonna
count from one
to some number right
and you're gonna do one
two
and then if the number is divisible by
three you'll print you'll print fizz
instead of that number
then
four
if the number is divisible by five
you'll print buzz instead of the number
and you'll go all the way up until
there's a number that's divisible by
three and five which will then be
fizzbuzz and so it's a loop right you're
going one through some number
you're having some conditional logic to
see if that number is divisible and if
it is you do the
word instead of the number
so chat how
how do i know if the number is divisible
by three or if the number is divisible
by say five what am i using here to
determine if something is divisible by
modulus nice
remember
modulus
right modulus
check check check check check
um
sorry one second our captions working
let me check real quick
hello hello hello
some reason captions just stopped i
think i didn't give it the right
permission
hello hello hello
all right one second i just want to make
sure we get these working
okay
all right
check check check check
the reason they went down when we take a
break i will uh try and get them fixed
sorry for folks that it went the
captions went down i i think it's just a
permission issue for some reason
but uh they were working and now they're
not so i'll get them back up during uh
during the break sorry about that
all right so we talked about
the
idea that if we want to check if
something is divisible by a number we
use modulus right so we're going to have
a function
a loop
conditionals
and modulus all in one problem
right so
let's go ahead and try and figure this
out alright so let's create a function
we'll call it fizzbuzz
and it says that we're taking in a
number so we'll just say num
beautiful and then we want to go from
one to that number so whenever i'm going
from one to that number i just know i'm
going to use a loop so let's just go
ahead and create a simple for loop
and in that simple for loop we'll have
let i equal one
while i is less than equal to num so
we're gonna go from one to the number
that they enter and we're gonna do i
plus plus so we're gonna go up each time
this loop runs now
why did i start
my counter or i at one
and not zero
a lot of folks kind of trying to figure
this one out
it's because it asked for it
it said
it
takes in a number
and goes from one to that number
it asks for it you got to pay attention
to it right when when you are doing
these coding challenges
it's really important that you pay
attention
to the question that's being asked
because i have had some interviewers
that'll do something like this
they'll just change it from one to two
and you'll solve the whole problem
they'll go no it's still not 100 right
oh you're close but it's not there right
and so you know make sure you read it i
don't like that type of interview but
i've seen it so be careful
all right so we're going from one to a
number
and if we just wanted to like console
log the number this would work right
like we just do console log
i
right that's going to count log one then
two then three then four then five then
six then seven then eight and nine right
so we're going to console.log somebody
said why
why
why less than num
well because num is the value that the
user is giving us
so if we were to call this function
right if we were to call this function
if we were to call this function and we
were to pass in the number 10
this would go from 1
to 10
but it wouldn't include it
so do we need less than or do we need
less than equal
beautiful exactly it's going to be less
than or equal to
because if we just did less than
it wouldn't go
to that number
it would stop at if we did ten it would
stop at nine so less than or equal to
beautiful good catch
and now if we were to run this it would
console log 1
through 10.
alrighty what does i stand for
increment incrementer it doesn't really
matter it's kind of lost its meaning
over the years it's just a short
variable to use
inside of your for loop
beautiful all right
what else is missing
you see it chat what else is missing
so i said everything
well our function
opens
and closes
but our for loop opens but never closes
beautiful
there we go
alrighty so now we have our function we
have our for loop we're going from one
to that number everything's looking good
now we just have to determine if the
number is divisible by three
by five and three by five so let's go
and try it out let's let's start doing
our conditional
what should our first conditional be
oh some folks did the homework
let's let's let's let's have some fun
though let's go ahead and do
let's go ahead and do if
num
sorry sorry if i
mod three
equals zero
what the heck does that mean
if i say ah i mod three equals zero what
am i looking for
so i said rookie
mistake yeah i'm looking to make sure
there's no remainder because if there's
no remainder that means that number is
divisible by three evenly and in that
case we'd want a console log
instead of the number
beautiful
how about our elsif
elsif kind of the same thing
we'll do i
mod five
equals zero that way we're seeing if the
number is indeed divisible by five and
in that case we will console.log
buzz
beautiful
and then
what's our next else if going to be here
we could check for both of them right so
we can do else if
if
i
mod three equals zero
and
i
mod five equals zero
then we would console.log
fizz
was beautiful
what's the last thing we need to
we need to actually console.log though
what's the last thing we got a console
log
yeah the actual number right now we're
only doing fizz buzz or fizzbuzz we're
not actually doing the number so let's
make sure we're actually console logging
the number so we can go from one to that
number
all right let's come out everything else
and see where we're at
in terms of
if we're working or not
geez
beautiful
all right everything else is console
logged out
we got it saved here
let's uh i'm going to even coming out
this run here let's save this
let's come back here let's refresh
and open up my inspector
i'm gonna go to my console log and let's
run fizz buzz here let's run fizzbuzz to
20.
we're going to run it to 20. let's see
what happens
all right we got
one two fizz
four buzz fizz seven eight fizz buzz
11 fizz 1314 fizz
1617 fizz 19 buzz
hmm
what what went wrong here
should be fizz buzz
but it only says fizz
it should be fizz buzz but it only says
fizz let's go ahead and take a look at
this
all right so all the other numbers
looked good we got one two fizz right it
that was looking good
but when we got to i being 15
what happened
let's take a look at it
is 15 mod 3 equal to 0
yup
so it console log fizz
does it ever get
to fizzbuzz
does it ever even get a chance to go to
fizzbuzz
no
15 this if is a true statement
it's a true statement so we console.log
fizz and then we're done we move on to
16.
or we move on to 16.
it never even gets the chance
to go
down to fizzbuzz so
what do we think we need to change here
for this to work
yeah we need to do five and three first
let's just copy this up here
let's cut it
boom
let's change this to three just to go in
order
and then down here
down here we'll do i
mod 5 equals 0 by itself
now we got to go in here and change it
so this should be fizz
buzz
this should be fizz
and this should be
buzz now
when we get the 15
is 15 mod 3 equal to 0
and
15 mod 5 0
is this a true statement
that the true statement
right the true statement
so we would print fizzbuzz in that
scenario let's save this
let's go back
let's refresh
let's run our fizzbuzz to 20 again
we got our one two fizz five for our
buzz and when we get to 15 the first
five and three we get a correct fizz
buzz so
i did that long way this is the most
common mistake i see folks make in the
interviews is that they forget to do
this statement first and they don't
catch it
they don't catch it when they go through
it i'm hired exactly
if you can do this right i know i know
if this is your first pass through it if
you didn't get a chance to do it in the
homework and it's the very first time
you see this i know there's a lot of
meat here
make sure you review this after class
make sure this is in your anki if you
can do this you can get a job
i know it sounds silly but if you can do
this there is a job out there that you
could have gotten
right if you would have networked your
way into
about 10 of jobs i saw last year
and you knew how to do fizzbuzz
you would have gotten that job
work on your networking
know how to do fizzbuzz
one job please
it's wild it really is
people out here grinding leak code until
their their nose bleed
when they don't really need to if they
just would have networked their way into
a job
all right
let's go ahead and move on
arrays this is our topic for the evening
we're going to spend uh quite a bit of
time working through this together what
the heck are arrays well
i like to think of arrays
as toasters
that's right
posters give me a second here
so
i do okay for myself
i'm outside a little bit you know i do
all right i got a i got a decent toaster
nice four slots
it does my breads it does my bagels
it does my pop tarts and on a good day
it does my toaster strudel too
all right i got i got a i got a decent
toaster now
when i look at my toaster
i see that it takes the bread
i see that it takes the pop tarts to
toast the strudel the the bagel
but i still see that as just one
toaster
so it's it's one thing
that holds a bunch of other stuff
right so it's still one entity
but it can hold toast
it can hold bread it can hold bagels it
can hold pop tarts it can hold toaster
strudel one thing
holding multiple things inside of it
now i thought i was okay
until one day when i was watching mtv
cribs
and
i started to notice wait a minute
do rich people
have other toasters
because i started to notice
some folks have
way
fancier toasters
now i haven't been the 50 cent's house
but i have a strong
suspicion
jodah
hey thank you if i get the subs
i have a pretty strong suspicion that if
i was to go to 50 cent's house
they probably have a 50 slot toaster
right and that 50 slot toaster probably
has all the bells and whistles
it probably does everything you can
think you can do right it it does the
bagels it does the bread it does the pop
tarts it does the toaster strudels it
probably has some horizontal slots for
if you're from the uk the cheese
toasties right like it
it probably does the works
right 50 cents probably live in large
one toaster
but it can hold so many different things
it even has like a special slot for for
for bagel bites it has like a different
slot for for pizza rolls right like 50
cents toaster does the business
50 slots
holding all kinds of different stuff
but it's still one toaster
and
i was kind of upset
that 50 cent could have such a toaster
until i found myself
inside of bill gates house
now don't
don't think too much into this but i was
inside bill gates house you do know i'm
a microsoft development influencer they
are sponsoring their upcoming stream so
it could happen it could have been
possible
so i i'm in bill gates house
it's late at night don't ask why it's at
night and i'm in bill gates house
and uh i
noticed their toaster
and their toaster
it's not a 50 cent toaster we don't get
god
it looks kind of like my toaster
and i start to feel real good about
myself
i'm like well hey i ain't got bill gates
money but i got a better toaster i'm
starting to feel special
so it's late i'm hungry
i open up the
freezer in the freezer
or the are those like
gourmet toaster strudels like the ones
when you go to the not not like the
normal supermarket you know like the
fancy version of whole foods yes there
is a fancy version of whole foods there
is a there is a
grocery store in la
that only has valet parking
that's what i'm talking about exclusive
toaster strudels the the whole box isn't
even in english it's not really a box
it's kind of more like a bouquet of
toaster strudel well their their freezer
is full of these kinds of toaster
strudels so i'm like i hit the jackpot i
can't even read it but i know what it is
and so i take four of these john's and i
go to the toaster
and i i put in the first fancy toaster
strudel the second the third the fourth
and when i put in the fourth
fancy toaster strudel
magically
a new slot opened up
and i'm sitting there
i thought i had one up on bill gates i
really did
but when i hit the fourth slot
a new slot opened
and i realized
that this slot could take anything it
could take the bread it could take the
bagels it could take the fancy toaster
strudels it could take the hot pockets
it could take
the pizza rolls and i couldn't help
myself i put another fancy toaster
strudel in i put another one in another
one
another one and each time i put a new
one a new new slot opened and i realized
that bill gates
has such a fancy toaster
that even as i fill up all the slots
there's always room for one more there's
a there's another there's another slot
to be had
i step back
and i look at bill gates toaster
and i realize
that it's an array
it's one element
one toaster
that can hold any other type of
data we've talked about whether it's
bread or bagels
and it can always hold one more one
element
one thing
that can hold a bunch of other
stuff
so
tonight
we're going to be working with arrays
and if you need to think about what an
array is
think
bill gates toaster
ncmic
redneck a thank you for the bits
okay
and an array
is a different way to structure data
that is a collection of stuff
that's all it is it's it's one thing
that can hold a bunch of other stuff
now arrays
get a little tricky
because there is some gotchas
to be had when it comes to a race
some gotchas that come with a raise
are that arrays really have two things
we're keeping track of
each thing that goes into the array just
like each thing that goes into our
toaster we call it an element so that
slice of bread would be an element the
toaster strudel would be an element the
bagel would be an element each thing we
put inside of the array or each thing we
put inside of our toaster we're going to
call that an element
now the thing that gets a lot of people
tripped up
is that when we're looking at the slots
on our toaster
if we were to give each slot a number
we the first slot we would call the
zeroth slot so we'd go zero slot first
slot second slot third slot
all right so we start counting at zero
this is called zero
indexing so arrays are tricky because
it's one entity
one structure that can hold every other
structure we've seen so far in
javascript they can hold numbers
booleans strings
even
other arrays
and when we start counting we start
counting the slots at zero not one now
like leon why do we start counting at
zero that's above my pay grade back in
the day when people are building
programming languages we know because of
binary ons and off zeros and once they
started with zero that carried over into
javascript so we start counting at zero
all right
we'll learn the real reason as we get
later on and we understand some of the
stuff underneath javascript
but one element that can hold a bunch of
other stuff just like a toaster
we start counting the slots at zero
and the beautiful thing with arrays
is they come with a bunch of built-in
functions that do a lot of heavy lifting
for us we're going to see one of those
built-in functions tonight but on
thursday we're going to play with a
bunch of them and they're really cool
they can do a lot of really interesting
stuff
and there are really two kinds of ways
to create arrays there's something
called a constructor which we'll get a
little bit more into when we get to
objects and then there's something
called literal notation where we're
literally creating the array so let's
take a look here's this constructor way
don't worry about this for now we'll
come back when we do it with objects
and here is literal notation we have
declared
a new variable called new array
and we have assigned it to be an array
using literal notation when you see
those square brackets in javascript you
know that we're playing
right we're playing with arrays so we
have literally
just created an array when we assign a
variable with the square brackets
cool
now
when we
assign our variable to be an array when
we literally create an array with those
square brackets we could have an empty
array like we have here just a toaster
with nothing inside of it
or when you declare your variable and
assign it you could assign it with stuff
already inside the toaster
so here you can see my array is holding
a string
a boolean a number
all the data types we've seen so far
can go into arrays
chat
what are these called
the things that we put inside of an
array what are they called
beautiful elements elements go inside of
our array
beautiful
so zebra true and 21 are all elements
inside of our array
something to be mindful of when you are
assigning an array like like creating
the array using that square bracket
notation that literal notation
if you leave an empty space
there is now an empty element there is a
there is an undefined element in your
array so
keep that in mind we're going to see an
example in a few seconds empty spaces
count here
now
the hard part with arrays so if this was
an array
here we have an array
with
abbreviations of cities inside of it
we have how many elements are inside
this array chat how many elements are
inside of this array
yes there are four elements in this
array now where it gets tricky
is give me
come on put put on the put on the
headphones tighter right now
new york city
is
the first element
it is the first element
but it is at what index
is such a weird thing to say
it is the first element
but is that what index
exactly is that the zeroth index
so i'm going to ask you a question
in chat
what is the second element in this array
nice
the second element in this array
is la
this is the second element
however
la is at what index
it is at the first index remember this
is bill gates toaster
right
bill gates toaster
right bill gates toaster
it has slots
this is
the zeroest slot
this is the first slot
this is the the second if in terms of
index
the third
we start counting our slots
at zero we call these the indexes
right so even though this is the second
element
it is at the first index
beautiful all right
what element
is in the second index chat
what element is in the second index
beautiful yes
sydney
is in the second index if we were to
count
zero one two
sydney
is the element in the second index
what element is in the fourth index
y'all got
nothing
there is no fourth index it's undefined
it's undefined
zero one two three
four there's nothing in four folks you
gotta got
london
is the fourth
element
but it's in the third
index
there's no element in a fourth index
there's nothing here it's undefined
you got
cool
if you're from
i'm interested if you're from if you're
from
let's see if anybody's here let's see
if you're from
l.a
throw your appropriate index into chat
if you're from la throw your appropriate
index in the chat or if you if you wish
you were from la throw your appropriate
index in the chat a lot of folks from la
man this this la meetup's gonna be lit
great so that we see that la's index is
one if you're from new york city here
outside
throw your appropriate index into chat
please
cool you're being the zeroth index cool
now if you're from london this would be
a little little late for you but if
you're from london throw your
appropriate index in chat please
we got a few of you a few of you
all right
got a few folks from london thrown up
for the third index and if you're from
sydney or if you just want to pretend
you're from sydney throw up the
appropriate index please
we got we got a couple of you guys
i think a little fibbin but yeah yeah
cool second index beautiful
so
new york
first element
zeroth index away
second element
first index sydney third element second
index
london fourth element
third index indexes start counting at
zero that's the tricky part folks
all right
now the cool thing is
once you understand the indexes it
enables you to get stuff out of the
array
so you can get stuff out of the array by
using the index so here you can see i
have an array called new array
and
you can see that the zeroth index would
give us zebra
zebra is that the zeroth index
so if i was to say new array
with the square brackets of zero
it would give me zebra
chris hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
now if i was to say
new array
of the index of one
i get undefined why do i get undefined
why do i get undefined when i ask for
the first index
yeah if we look
there's an empty space
remember when i said empty spaces matter
they still take up space in the array
there's still a slot in the toaster
there's just nothing in it and so if you
ask for that empty slot if you ask for
that empty slot in the toaster you get
undefined
if we ask for the second index we would
get true and if we asked for the third
index we would get 21 21 21 21
right
zero
one
two
three in terms of the indexes
beautiful
now the cool thing is
not only can we get stuff out of the
array
we can put stuff into the array
so i didn't like having that empty slot
in my toaster
right i didn't i didn't like having that
empty slot in my toaster so what i'm
doing here is i'm saying hey
look at my array
and using the square bracket notation
i'm saying look at the first index
and set that equal to
string bob
right string bob
now if i was to ask for the entire array
back
i would have zebra bob true21 it's as
though i put a new slice of bread
into that empty slot in the toaster
in this case it was string bob
is it like reassigning exactly it's
exactly like reassigning except you're
reassigning
one slot in the array or one slot in
your toaster and it doesn't have to be
empty
right it doesn't have to be empty you
you can take any
any value you want you could do new
array
and do
and set it equal to
21 savage's
wild stepson
right 22 savage
and now if we were to call back the
array would no longer be 21 to be 22.
so you don't have to
re-savage exactly re-savage
uh you don't have to it doesn't have to
be empty to modify you can even
take a space that is currently undefined
say new
array
or
and set it out to
we
online
right
if we were to call back this array we
would see zebra bob
true
and then there'd be a new slot for
we
online
beautiful
now one of the really tricky things
one of the really tricky things is
you can also reassign the whole array at
one time
so here
let's look at some let's look at a
normal
variable that we've seen before
like let
num
equal five
if i reassign num
to be equal to six
what the heck is num if i asked for num
what would you give me
if i asked for num what would you give
me
you give you give me six right it's been
reassigned well let's look here we have
a variable here called cars
and it said equal to an array of cars
here
i have an array of numbers
and then i do something odd down here i
set cars
equal to numbers so i've literally
reassigned the whole cars variable
to be this numbers variable so if i was
to ask for cars i would get one two
three it's the exact same thing i've
just reassigned the variable but i
reassigned it to a whole other freaking
array
so you can overwrite whole arrays by
assigning an array to a different array
and with that statement
i think it's time to take a break
i think i think it's time to take a
break with that one
all right so let's go ahead and put five
minutes on the clock
and
when we come back we're gonna see a few
more powerful things with arrays and
then get lots of practice all right lots
of practice when we come back so five
minutes on the clock we're gonna come
back look at two last really powerful
things with arrays and then get lots of
practice with them lots of fun stuff
coming up
all right five minutes on the timer if
you're able please get up move around
hydrate let your eyes focus on something
that's not the screen for a while and i
will see you in five
all right checking the closed captioning
i'm starting to think it might not be on
my end
um
i'll try fiddling with something else
i'll be right back
hmm
so
try and look at the closed captioning in
but
not working
hold on be right back
we're still here
all right
trying to see if there's a permission i
turned off by accident
uh
okay i i see what happened i see how i
see how it works um
i can't turn it back on now but it will
be back on for a next stream i
definitely figured i figured out what it
is but i have to quit everything for it
to come back uh let's see one second let
me brb real quick
come on come on back
check check check
cash let's go
all right let's go let's go let's turn
up
all right so the the captioning should
be back
that should be good
[Music]
all right
i think we can come back we all live
folks we online
all right
well
beautiful sorry about that folks all
right i had to change all the
permissions and then restart so my my
notes and stuff are down the uh
i won't see all the note notifications
coming through but we're good for now
beautiful alrighty
oh the slides
oh i need the slides
bear with me folks sorry
all right oh look at us
[Music]
beautiful all right we're back
cool beans
alrighty folks
sorry for the little disruption there
but the closed caption should be back
uh we got the slides back already so we
talked about arrays indexing we saw that
you can overwrite whole
whole arrays just because
it's a variable right you're assigning a
variable something that's all it is
now a raise
excuse me sorry come with this like very
uh
they come with a lot of goodies built in
all right they come in with a lot of
goodies built in
and one of the goodies they come built
in with is this length
property
now when i say the word property
it shouldn't send alarm bells off if you
did some of the reading about what an
array really is but we're not ready to
reveal all those secrets yet
right but when you use an array you get
this lovely length property that comes
along with it
and this length property will tell you
how many elements
are inside of your toaster
or how many elements
are inside of your array
so if you ever want to know how many
elements are in your array including
empty spaces you use length
so let's go ahead and take a look at
this
code here
arrayed at in it to win it
when it closed ones we did already and
so in it to win it you'll notice that
all of our
all of our all of our coding today is
around one of the greatest movie
franchises of all time
bring it on of course and so we have if
you haven't noticed already we've had
bring it on bring it on again but then
we also have things themed for fight to
the finish and it's in it to win it
worldwide cheer smack so it's just it's
just it's modern exactly modern classics
so let's go ahead and open up the init
to win it
and there are a few practice problems to
get your fingers going with a raise so
let's go ahead and put five minutes on
the clock here i want you to try your
best here and
see if you can figure out this work when
it comes to arrays five minutes on the
clock have at it you got this if you're
new around here
all the starter code is on our discord
exclamation point discord in chat agree
to our rules and in the following
materials channel you'll see all the
stuff we're working with tonight
i was gonna be jamming you work i jam
[Music]
cool
yeah difficult got the answer there
no way folks you got some dunzos that's
wild
no worries blood
shrek truck two check three
all right we gotta settle this once and
for all
do
[Music]
if you're done please fill out the most
important poll of 100
history usually on top of the challenge
my brain isn't really cooperating today
no worries always catch the vod
never feel like you have to thug it out
and always be on the vod afterwards
every day can't be our day
oh that's good to hear faith
[Music]
wow
is shrek 1 about to 90
get out of here
i have never been
more flabbergasted by this community
absolutely
that blew my mind
we still i i think all the folk you know
what
all the diligent folks are still working
and not voting on the polls
they haven't seen the poll yet
all the folks that
that are working hard i haven't seen the
poll yet
i think that's going to tip the favors
there's a certain type of person that
likes the first shrek movie as a
different type of person that likes
shrek 2 you know a little bit more of a
a nuance
a little genesecua you know
about a minute 30 left books
it's one of the first times finishing
super early hey congrats
bye
[Music]
am i super saiyan i wish minty i wish
look at the dunzo's coming in i see
y'all make sure you get in this poll
alrighty folks
hey congrats on the dones
all right let's take a look at this
together please
come on back no matter if you're still
working come on back let's go through it
together
alrighty
create an array of movies with at least
three movies so let's of course use uh
the greatest movie franchise of all time
bring it on
and so
we'll go ahead and set up an array and
when you square brackets so i've just
created this array using what kind of
notation
what kind of notation did i just use
here to create an array throw it in chat
for me please
yeah i've used literal notation to
create an array
i'm going to go ahead and throw in
um
init
to win it beautiful but a comma remember
you separate things in your arrays with
commas and then i'll do fight to the
finish
and are we feeling worldwide cheer smack
i'm not the biggest fan of worldwide
cheer smack i know some folks that it
thought it brought like a new
revitalization to the franchise but it's
kind of not my cup of tea but uh we'll
do we'll do it
worldwide
pure smack
beautiful
alrighty
using the array from above
store the first movie in a variable
so let's go ahead and make a variable
here called first
movie
already
and
how can i get the first movie
out of
my movies array
eighty percent trek one
wow
trek two is clearly the better movie i
had
848 votes to 216.
wow
shocked i say shocked
all right first movie movies
zero beautiful it's going to give us the
first out the first element out of our
movies array the in it to win it is now
stored in first movie
get the length of the original array and
store it in a new variable let's call
this let
array
length just to give it a good name and
then i can do movies dot
length
right there we go that's going to give
us the length of the original array
so stored in
array length is what number if i was to
go ahead and let's say
uh console log
array length
what would i get what would i what would
line seven give me
shooketh i say yes
three exactly because we have one
two
three elements in our original array
okay
get the last element in the array
and store it in a new variable
all right so let's create a new variable
let's call this
last
element
and how can i get the like if i wanted
to just like
do this
the easy way
right now with just the information i
have on the screen
how could i get the the last element in
this array here
like if you if you didn't want to think
at all how could i get the last element
right now
yeah i could do
movies
that would give me the last element
in the array right if we looked
so movies 2 would give me the last
element in the array
but what if
i kept adding elements
to my array
when movies 2
always give me the last element
no
it would it would always be stuck at
that worldwide cheer smack no matter how
much more stuff i added it wouldn't work
so is there a way
using just what we have learned today
not adding other methods i see folks
throwing out pop and stuff like that is
there a way with the stuff we have seen
today don't delay by today
how could we get always have the last
element
yeah i see a lot of folks in here so
we could do
movies
dot
length
minus one
right or if we wanted to use our
variable from up top
we could do
array length
minus one but let's let's make it a
little bit clearer with the
movies.length
what will movies.length always give us
will movies.length always give us
ah c fly see philly got it
the number of elements
movies dot length will always give us
the number of elements if we were to
look at this right now movies dot length
would give us
one two three it's always going to give
us the total number of elements right
now there are three elements in the
array so movies.length would give us
three
why the heck do i have to do minus one
why do i have to do minus one
ah
because indexes start at zero so we're
always going to do minus one because if
we wanted to get the element out of the
array we need to use its index
the index is zero
one
two
so the total number of elements in the
array
will always be off by one
when it comes to the index because the
last element in the array
will always be off by one right if we
count one two three but the index is two
we're off by one so we always take the
length in this case it'd be three
minus one which would give us
two
and if we use that index to get the
value out of the array
0 1
2 it would give us the last element and
so this syntax here will always give us
the last element in the array
without having to know the length of the
array i could put we could this we could
be at bill gates house
having a pool party having some fun
he could be firing up the toaster we
could have 100 things in that toaster we
don't need to know the length to get the
last element out
right
if there were a hundred elements in the
toaster
let's take it for a second if there were
a hundred elements in the toaster
what would movies.length give us
if there were a hundred elements in the
toaster what would movies.length give us
now now you jump the head you jump the
head
if there were a hundred elements in the
toaster what would movies dot length
give us
it would give us a hundred
it's the total number of elements
however
if we wanted to take the last toaster
strudel out
return the bill and say hey bill
mr gates
give me the toaster strudel
in what slot number
what index would we ask for that last
toaster strudel
it would be 99
right if there were a hundred elements
in our bill gates toaster
and we wanted the last one
we're asking for the toaster strudel
in slot 99 because the slots start
counting at zero the indexes start
counting at
zero
so this would be
a hundred elements
minus one
to give us 99 or the 99th element in the
toaster if we looked at the toaster the
toaster goes from zero to 99.
there are a hundred elements inside of
it but the slots go from zero to
ninety-nine so we're always going to
need to be off by one to get the last
element
i got 99 problems but an index ain't one
could have said any better dev
beautiful
let's save this up and move on
alrighty now
now that we
know about arrays
we can store stuff
into the array we can take stuff out of
the array we can also iterate through
the array
we can pull values out of the array as
we want them so here i have an array of
best colors
green blue yellow black
if i asked for the length of best colors
if i did best colors dot length
sorry
best colors dot length
what i
get
best colors dot length what am i getting
i'm getting four there's four elements
in this array
if i wanted the
last element out of the no let's let's
change up if i wanted the first element
out of this ray what would i what do i
need to type i want the first element
out of this array
excuse me
yeah we'll be doing
best colors
zero
right that's going to give us green
if i want the last one
best colors
best
colors
dot
length
minus one
that's going to give me what
best colors best colors dot length minus
one is going to give me what
black beautiful
that pattern
needs to be in anki
it needs to be anki i i don't care if
you don't get the negative one yet
maybe it will maybe didn't click for you
this class that's okay it'll get we'll
get we'll review it on on thursday needs
to be in your anki though
alrighty now
we saw how to use indexes to get stuff
out of the array well the cool thing is
we can actually iterate through the
array so here
i'm starting my counter off at zero
i'm going to loop through from zero
to the total number of elements in the
array
i'm gonna go up by one each time and so
what's gonna wind up being printed to
the console here chat what's gonna be
printed to the console
yeah it's gonna be all the colors
it's gonna pop off green then blue then
yellow then black and then
stop because if we look if we did this
if we ran this
i starts off at zero
so best colors
zero
is going to give us
green
then we add one
is one
less than
or
it is
so then we would do best colors
one which is going to give us
blue
then we add one
is two
less than four
since it is
we're at best colors two
which gives us yellow
then we add one
right then we add one
now
we're at three
is three less than four
yes
so
we're at
best colors three
which is black
then we add one
is four less than four
no
we're done we stop
exactly oh and this is why
we start counting at what
why did we start counting at zero here
didn't we start counting at one here why
do we start counting at zero here
because the indexes started at zero
if we started at one
guess what we skip we skip write the
blue
right
green's index is zero
blue's index is one
so if i start it counting at one
i skip green and i go straight to blue
right
so we start counting at zero so we can
get the first element out of the array
which is green
beautiful
now
there's also
another
iteration
right
that another way we can iterate through
arrays that come with arrays
there is a special kind of loop
that is tied to arrays it's like a
function that comes with the rays that
enables us to loop through
so we can do the exact same thing that
we have here
with this for loop
right
we can do that with a for each
and so the for each seems a little odd
because what it is doing
is for each is a special function
built into javascript
that will run once
for each element in your array
so for each all it does
is it runs once
for each element in your array so
without having any idea what this line
of code does
how many times is this for each going to
run
beautiful it's gonna run four times
there are four elements in our array the
length of our array is four so since
there are four elements
four each is going to run four times
and each time it runs
it runs this
what if i just circled what have i
circled here
each time for each runs it runs
something
it runs that function that's a function
that's an arrow function right there
that arrow function
is going to run
each time
that makes
the arrow function
a what
an argument
he has an argument
if this is a function
and it runs
and when it runs
we pass in this function
that means that that function
is taken in a function
as an argument
we've kind of we've hit higher order
functions
got we got maybe some callbacks what the
we're not there yet we're not there yet
don't worry
don't worry we'll get there eventually
we're not there yet but
that's some some that's some javascript
happening right that's all i got to say
we got functions on functions on
functions we got functions as arguments
we got some higher order stuff we got
some we got some fancy stuff going on
right here we don't have to know the
lingo yet but we're gonna get there
but right now we have
each time for each runs
is running this function this arrow
function
now the cool thing is
when for each runs
we said it runs once for each element
right
when it runs for each is popping off
three things at a time maybe technically
four
it's popping off the element
the index
and even the array itself
and so when for each runs
the very first time it runs
it's going to pop off green
and its index of zero
then when the 4-h runs the second time
it's going to grab blue
and it's index of 1.
the next time for each runs it's going
to grab yellow and it's index of two
and the very last time for each runs
it's going to grab black and its index
of three
now instead of these
values
and indexes
poofing into the air
right instead of it poofing into the air
we set up somewhat
we set up some what
we set up some parameters
exactly
so in this case
x x
is going to hold
the actual strings
x is going to be green the first time it
runs
x will be blue the second time it runs
it'll be yellow the third time it runs
and it'll be black the fourth times it
runs
i is kind of doing the same thing the
very first time 4h runs it grabs the
zero index
then the first index then the second
index
then the third index remember
four each
runs
once
for each element in your array and when
it runs it's a little goblin it comes
and it grabs the element
and it grabs the index
before it runs
so 4-h comes along
it sees that there's four elements in
this array we know 4h is going to run
four times and every single time it runs
it grabs the element and it grabs the
index
and that goblin
is passing the element
into our parameter of x
and that goblin is passing the index
into that parameter of i
now
am i even using i
no
i have access to it though
the goblin's doing a good job it grabbed
it for me i'm not using it but i got it
right he's not using it but i got it
cool
so the very first time this runs
the goblin grabs
what
the very first time four each runs
the very first time the the for each
goblin
runs
what does it grab
it runs around
and it grabs green
and
zero so x in this instance
is green
and i in this instance
is zero
beautiful
so if we look inside the arrow function
what gets logged to the console
mikey dubs nothing nothing
a console logs green
exactly a console logs green the very
first time
this for each goblin runs it runs around
and it grabs green
and zero from the array
it passes green into x
it passes zero into i
and that's why if we were to look at
this in the console log we would see
green
yes i forgot how to spell green for a
brief second it's okay
the world still goes on
next
the goblin runs a second time the goblin
runs around this time grabs blue
and it's index of one
so x is going to be blue
and
i is going to be one
so we'll see
lou
print it to the console
the third time this run the goblin runs
around grabs yellow
and it's index of two
so
into x we see yellow
into i we see two
and then the very last time the goblin
runs the goblin runs around grabs black
and it's index of three
so
x would be
black
i would be three
can you pass in just one parameter yeah
you could have just passed in you could
have just called x right you could and
you could call x whatever you want this
could have been called zebra it doesn't
matter it's just a parameter
for each every single time it runs
grabs the element grabs the index and
even grabs the array
right and so the goblin is passing it
into this function and we have the
parameters to catch those values we have
x to catch the
element and we have i to catch the index
cool
let's try running it
let's go and open up the index
i open up the inspector
alrighty let's go to our console
we put in our array of best colors
and then let's go ahead and run
this line of code
beautiful
we see green blue yellow and black
what if i wanted the indexes also to
show up
let's let's let's clear it and run it
again
i'm going to make one change i want the
index to also show up
let's throw i in here
not if just i
now we're getting green zero blue one
yellow two black three the goblin is
passing in green and zero and now we're
console logging green in zero then the
goblin runs around and grabs blue one
then yellow two then black three and we
see all those being printed to the
console
alrighty
want to see something else weird let's
do one more thing here let's do
let's clear this
just to mess with our brains a little
bit
can chat tell me what just happened here
yeah it grabs the whole array
so
r for each goblin
right
r for each goblin can actually grab some
extra stuff
not only can it grab the elements
not only can it grab the index
it can actually grab the array that it's
stealing stuff from
right so each time the goblin ran it
could also grab the array itself and so
a
i'm just saying short for for array is
actually grabbing the array it doesn't
it's never going to change it's always
going to grab the same array
but it's something that comes along with
for each
now you're saying like when would you
use that for it'll come up sometimes you
want to know
what the goblin is grabbing stuff from
right but for now just know that it
exists
i got a milli stuck in my head by little
wayne
it's a goon to a goblin nothing nothing
all right
let's uh let's try and code some of this
out
let's try and code some of this out so
we got fight to the finish
right to the finish
let's go ahead and open that up
all righty create an array of movie
titles loop through the array in each
element in the h2
create an array of numbers loop through
the array and add three to each number
replacing the old number
find the array of all the average of all
the numbers from question three
i put five minutes on the timer
we're gonna go at it together after the
five so give it the good old 100 dev try
then we'll go over it together good luck
at which point interview did we mention
the smears and goblins once you have the
offer letter that's when you bring all
that stuff up
three for the last one yeah
this one's labeled fight to the finish
for a reason folks fight to the finish
you got this
chris i appreciate that you spent the
the channel points to highlight that
damn bull thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
obscure we'll come over we'll go over
github strategy during the class but
one folder and i just keep pushing them
to the same folder
hope you're doing well dmvo
no ivan unless you're unless you're a
designer use the templates for sure
this house was confusing at first
absolutely that's why we save it for a
while in
untouchable said just want to say thank
you i got two contracts signed today and
two deposits today never would have been
possible for this awesome class hey it's
amazing to hear that congrats
no coco it's up to you
all right folks about two minutes left
you got this
man
this second question is is the
engagement on this one
got a contract for a ballet studio for
725 that's awesome congrats worlds
lucky yeah anki time on these ones is
definitely needed for sure
congrats on getting the first one tony
that's awesome
whatever you want to call it sudo
do
got some dunzos on this congrats
alrighty folks
come on back let's do these last
together
and then we'll cue up a raid i think
come on back come on back
alrighty
create an array of movie titles
loop through the array
and each element to the h2
now
what you might have noticed with each of
these questions was what
each of these questions there is
something
what there's something missing from each
of them
it's a little funky the wording's a
little off
but you're all engineers
you are all engineers
you should be able to figure out
from the question
that you should be adding
that's it
it's not hard
you're gonna read documentation
that is way
way
worse way worse
and you're gonna have to use your
deductive reasoning and logic skills
to figure out what's being asked
so when you get some tricky questions
don't give up
give your best guess
do what you think is being asked
try and push
and then get clarified
by asking good questions cool
green array of movie titles loop through
the array and add
add each element to the h2 alright so
let's go ahead and do this
uh let
movies equal
and we're going to create an array using
literal notation and let's just put the
beginnings of each of these movies
uh let's say fight
let's say
win and let's say worldwide mr worldwide
beautiful
loop through the array and add each
element to
the h2 let's make sure we have an h2 to
add two so let's go and look
we do have an h2 great so we could do no
we do have an hd we can add to
so now we have to loop through
and add uh we could do
a for loop we could do
a four each let's do a for loop first
and then
we'll do a for each one the other ones
let's set up a for loop
let's go ahead and do let i equal what
are we going to start our eye off at
yup zero because our arrays are zero
index
while i is less than and how do we know
when to stop
how do we know when to stop how how can
we get the the stopping number here
yeah just get the length movies.length
beautiful
and then we just add one each time great
so this should
enable us to move through zero two
two zero one 2 then we would hit 3 and 3
would not be
less than 3 so it would stop so this
should give us each of the elements in
the array if we use them
and so let's go ahead and as we do this
let's select the h2
dot query selector
let's go ahead and select the h2
and then how do we
put something into the h2
how can we put text into something
yeah inner text
beautiful
and we saw what the 21 savage 21 21 21
that if we just did this right we
wouldn't be adding or concatenating so
we got to do our plus equals we'll do
our plus equals and then we're going to
go ahead and grab from our movies
i
so the very first time this runs
right the very first time this runs
we're going to have i be zero
and so we're gonna find the h2 and put
inside of it movie zero which is
fight
then the next time this runs
i is one
we're gonna go ahead and grab win
and put that in the h2
and the last time this runs i is two
so we'll grab worldwide
and put that in
the h2
beautiful
could you have done it before each
absolutely it's up to you
all right create an array of numbers
loop through the array
and
add three to each number
and replace the old number and replace
the old number is interesting here
it's it's replaced the old number that
gets this tricky
we haven't really done that yet so let's
think through it let's create an array
of numbers
let nums equal and let's just keep it
simple i'm going to start i'm going to
do different numbers i'm going to do
like 10
and 30 just so it's a little bit clearer
i think if we do like one two three it
might be a little confusing so let's do
10 20 30.
and we want to loop through this array
of numbers
and add three to each one
so we could
do uh another for loop we already did
one of those let's do the four each
so let's go ahead and do nums
dot four each and inside the four reach
we can put our function so i'm going to
use a nice little arrow function here
um do i need
do i need both things so let's say let's
grab the item
and let's grab the index
and
we're going to have our curly braces so
we can put whatever we want to have
happen
inside these curly braces so
each time for each runs the 4-h goblin
is going to grab the item and the index
right so we're going to go off and we're
going to go and grab
the very first time this runs the
goblin's gonna grab 10
and zero
then it'll run again grabbing 20
and one
and then the last time the goblin will
grab
and two
right
am i just putting random words or item
index special no they can be called
whatever you want we could have called
this
bob
and unicorn
the only thing that matters when it
comes to for each
is that for each every single time
will grab
the element
then the index
and then the array
so whatever you put inside of this
for each
know that it's going to grab those
things in that order
so you want to make sure that you have
something for each of them
sometimes you'll see folks do something
like this
where if they know they're not going to
use it they'll just do the underscore
like if they know they're only going to
use the index they might do something
like that but let's keep it simple let's
do item
and i for index
alrighty so now we can go through
and
what we want to do is we want to change
each of these numbers
to be the number
plus three
so if we were going to do this like if i
was going to do this just without
knowing how it would work i want to take
and reassign it to be 13.
i want to take 20
and reassign to be 23
and i want to take 30 and reassign it to
be 33. i'm going to add 3 to each of
them
so
what i'm going to do
is i'm going to grab
each element in the index
so i'm going to grab each each of these
elements by using its index
so let's let's comment this out for a
second
and let's think
how could i update 10
to b13
to be 13.
think through that for a second
by reassigning exactly i could do
nums
what
how do i grab the first element
nums zero
equals
nums
zero
plus
three
or you might do something like this just
to make a little bit easier on yourself
plus equal three
because what you're saying here if we go
back to the slightly longer way
is
when you have it on the left hand side
this is you trying to reassign a
variable
everything that happens over here
executes and then goes into that slot
so
nums 0
would grab
and we would add 3 to it
meaning that this right hand side
is 13.
that 13
would go into that location
i did forget the s sorry
there we go
all right
so here all i'm doing is i'm grabbing
the original number
which is 10
adding 3 to it which is 13 and then
putting 13 reassigning that space
in the array to be 13.
i could hard code it right i could do
plus 13 but i want to be able to grab
the numbers and i could do this over and
over again i could say all right
nums
equals
bob
right
i could say nums one equals bob
and
numbs
two
equals
unicorn
and if i was to ask for this array back
if i was to like if i was to log nums i
would get 13
bob
unicorn
all i'm doing is i'm reassigning these
different slots in the toaster i'm
saying go to the zeroest slot
and put this in
then go to the second slot in the
toaster and put this in
go to the third slot in the toaster and
put this in
right
but instead of doing bob and unicorn
what i decided to do
was to put new numbers
right
put new numbers into those slots so
i'm gonna say 20
plus 3
and
30 plus 3
right
but if i wanted to pull the value
out first
i would say nums
that would grab 20. saying nums 1 is the
same thing as saying 20 here
right
it's the same thing as saying 20 there
i'm saying nums
1 that's grabbing the 20.
i'm adding 3 to it and then i am putting
that into
this slot in the toaster making it 23.
down here
i'm gonna do nums
two
that's gonna grab 30. it's the same
thing as saying 30 here
right making it 33 and i'm putting 33
into that slot in the toaster
now instead of doing this line by line
hand coded by hand coded
i came down here and i put this inside
of a loop
it's going to be the exact same thing
that i just hand coded up there i'm
saying all right let each specific slot
in the toaster
equal
whatever the item was
plus
three
so if we were to walk through this now
what's going to happen
is i am going to
run this for each
the 4h is going to run how many times
chat
how many times is this for each goblin
going to run
the 4-h goblin's gonna run three times
the very first time the 4-h goblin runs
let's set up our let's set up our column
here
item
and i
alright the very first time the 4-h
goblin runs
it grabs 10
and 0.
so wherever i see item
it's actually 10
and so what i wind up doing is i have 10
there and wherever i see i
it's zero
so what i wind up doing
is saying all right
this first slot in the toaster
is going to be 10 plus three
this winds up becoming
13.
the next time the goblin runs
it grabs
we should probably put these back to
what they were
the very next time the goblin runs
it grabs
and the index of one
so wherever i see item it's actually 20
and wherever i see i it's actually one
and so what i wind up doing is putting
in this slot of the toaster
20 plus three this becomes 23.
and the very last time
the goblin
runs
it grabs 30
and the index of two
so wherever i see item it's 30 plus i'm
gonna add three to it
and over here i have i being two so i'm
going to go to the
last slot in the toaster the zero
the one the two and i'm going to put 33
inside of it
so it's reassigning yes it's just
reassigning it's reassigning these
spaces inside of the array
now i know the first time you see this
this is a wild notion
especially if you didn't get to the
arrays in the homework this is really
hard to see
so you got to come back you got to
rewatch this when you got to play with
it yourself this really helps if you
draw it out like get a piece of paper
see what item equals see what i equals
and and type it all out for yourself
just makes it a little bit easier to
follow along
all right last one and then we'll do a
raid and end it for this evening
find the average of all the numbers from
question
three
how can i find the average of all the
numbers from question three
so if this is question three
we can't grab all the numbers
but was there another question that had
numbers
yes
question two had numbers come on now
question two had numbers so we can say
get all average all the numbers from
question two
all right
let's go ahead and how can we calculate
average
oh i see something sorry throwing in we
have to add all the numbers together
and then
divide it
by the total number of numbers
beautiful
so let's go ahead and do that
uh let's first
let's create a sum i'm going to create a
variable called sum i'm going to set it
equal to zero
and then what i'm going to do
is i'm going to add each number to sum
i'm going to add each number to sum so
let's just go ahead and set up a quick
loop
i'm going to say nums dot 4 each
and i know inside of my for each loop
i'm going to need each number
so i can just grab that first number it
could be
call whatever i want
call it num i guess
and then all i have to do
is do sum
plus equals
num
why would this work why would some plus
equal num work here
why would that work here
yeah
so we could take num
and add it to sum so for each number we
had it could take 10
add
0 plus 10
then 20 plus 10 would be 30 30 plus 30
would be 60. so we could do it kind of
like in one line with the four each
let's do it with a for loop i think four
looks a little bit easier to see how we
could do this let's do four
let's do let i equal
zero while i is less than nums dot
length
and then we can do i plus plus
all i'm going to do
is i'm going to add each number to sum
so i can do sum plus equal
nums
i
some folks are pulling out the reduce
and all that fun stuff
there are other ways to do it but this
is pretty pretty forward right so
if we were to be the goblin and we're
looking just at nums right here
the very first time this runs
nums 0
would give us
10.
so we would add 10
to sum
then the next time that this runs
i would be one
and that would grab us
20 then we'd be adding 20.
the last time that this runs
i would be 2
and that would grab us 30 and we'd be
adding 30 to some
my brain is shut off no hey
i told you we're gonna start turning it
up a little bit turn it up a little bit
all right let's break this down one more
time and then we're going to call it
this evening i know arrays are difficult
the first time you see them this is like
our first this is like our first real
programming right it's the first time
you're doing all these substitutions
we're really using variables and so the
very first time you see this is
definitely difficult for a lot of folks
you need to probably come back and
rewatch this one play with a little bit
and then guess what we're gonna come
back thursday we're gonna do all this
stuff again
right so all the stuff that we kind of
first started today you're going to see
it again on thursday and we're just
going to add a little bit more towards
the end
cool let's do this one more and then
we'll end
alrighty
when this runs
let's make it a little bit clearer let's
do
sum equals
sum plus
nums
i
already
so
when we run this for loop
what is the length of nums
what is the length of nums here
nums.length give us what in chat please
it gives us three exactly if we look
you can see there are three elements
inside of nums
so this for all intents and purposes is
three
beautiful
the very first time this runs
nums zero
remember it's gonna be numbs
square brackets zero because i at first
is zero
nums zero is what if we go up to the
nums array and we grab the value out of
the zeroth index
what do we get
we get the number 10.
if we come back down here
it's as though we do
plus
10.
all right this doughy duplica well let's
let's comment this out sorry if i was
getting confused on that one let's
comment that out
there we go
it's as though we're doing plus
10.
so at this point we're doing 0 plus 10
and we're reassigning that to sum
so sum becomes
10.
and this runs again
now numbs is no longer zero we've added
one to it we are at one
so
nums one
gives us what value
numbers 1 gives us what value if we come
all the way up to the array and we look
at numbers 1 we get what
20 exactly so it says though we put 20
down here
so sum at this point
is 10.
we do 10
plus 20.
and then we reassign that
the sum
so now some is sitting at a pretty
thirty
and the very last time this runs
the very last time this runs
we're at i equals two because it went up
by one
so if we were to ask for nums
two
what value are we getting out of the
array
we're getting 30 exactly
that's the second index in that array
pull that out
it's as though it was 30
and we were already sitting at sum
being 30.
so it's as though it's 30 plus 30
we're going to reassign some
to be 60.
now
sum is sitting at 60.
how do we get the average
you're saying divide by three but how
could we make this so that it's
extensible to any number
of elements in the array
yeah we could do some
let's just console log it
we could do console log
sum
divided by
nums dot length
right because nums.length would give us
three
because there are three elements in the
nums array so at the end
this would be 60 divided by 3
and we would get the average
of
20.
beautiful beautiful beautiful beautiful
alrighty folks
i know
the first time you do a raise
it can be very very difficult
the idea of
one entity that can hold a lot of values
that's tough
right
make sure
you get through the arrays reading
before thursday just to try and
reinforce some of these concepts
don't be afraid to come back and
re-watch a lot of these kind of examples
this is your first time really seeing
a lot of substitution
a lot of variables holding values things
moving bobbing weaving
it's okay
if it didn't click for you and the very
first time you see something
this complex
come back
re-watch this portion and please if
things were not if it weren't able to
connect all the dots make sure you come
back and you do it with a piece of paper
the substitutions are a lot easier if
you're keeping track of what i is
it's a lot easier if you're keeping
track of what's going into the sum or
etc right so come back with a piece of
paper follow along as you do these
because it really does make a huge huge
huge huge world of a difference so
let's go ahead and set up a raid
uh don't forget
not only do we have class on thursday
you got to be turning up your networking
you got to be turning up your
daily code challenges remember code wars
you're doing a code wars every day
you want to make sure you're doing level
eight
make sure you are
only doing the fundamentals track
if you're doing something that's not
level eight and not fundamentals it's
not going to be
fun
so please make sure when you're doing
your code wars you are making sure
you're doing level 8 cues fundamentals
if you want to join the 100 devs clan
makes a little bit more fun
and on thursday we'll come back and
we'll do more of this this is not the
only time we will see a raise folks
we're going to come back on thursday
we're going to run back this array
knowledge make sure it syncs a little
bit better and then add a few more
methods on to the end so let's go ahead
and do our raid
setting up
beautiful all right they are
working on something fun
a dynamic pokemon overlay
already folks i'll see you over at the
raid have a wonderful rest of your
tuesday
good luck with your coding challenge
tomorrow come back thursday we'll keep
plugging away at a raise we'll make them
make a little bit more sense let's raid
peace everyone